# Homework 13

I really enjoyed the exokernel paper! Some of the design choices in the JOS labs make more sense now.

The idea behind the paper is to separate the management and protection responsibilities of the kernel. Monolithic kernels do both, while exokernels only provide protection and leave all resource management to application operating systems. This means that the kernel is no longer forcing applications to use a fixed interface (VM, FS, etc.) and instead applications can now make choices on which abstractions to use based on their domain. Having this choice is beneficial because it enables applications to manage resources in a way that best fits their workload.

For example, an exokernel will let an application pick where to map its own pages in memory. Having pages physically located next to each other improves cache performance. This kind of optimization would not be possible with a monolithic kernel, which would just pick a physical page for you. The exokernel also includes the application in resource revocation. For example, if the kernel is under memory pressure it will ask the application to free up a page. It is then up to the application to pick a page and release it. This is very useful for database applications, which may have workloads that do not fit the default page eviction scheme of a monolithic kernel. Better yet, every application can have a different page eviction policy by including a different library operating system. This flexibility is not possible in a monolithic kernel and is what makes Aegis perform so well, as shown in the paper.
